<h1 align="center"> Jazz Impressions: AI-Driven Visual Echoes of Musical Influences</h1>
<p align="center"> by Lois Kelly </p>

----

<p align="center"> This code is submitted in partial fulfilment for the requirements for the degree of  </p>

<p align="center"> MASTER OF SCIENCE in Data Science and AI for the Creative Industries. </p>

<p align="center"> Creative Computing Institue,  </p>

<p align="center"> University of the Arts London  </p>

<p align="center"> 2024. </p>

----

- To run this notebook please ensure the full github repo has been downloaded: https://git.arts.ac.uk/23044972/Jazz_Impressions/tree/main

- The full tool can be run using the [Jazz Impressions Full Notebook](jazz_impressions_tool.ipynb)

- This code requires access to a GPU set up using CUDA. 

- *LLM DISCLAIMER: This code was developed with assistance from ChatGTP. Other sources are cited at the bottom of the relevent cell.*

----
### Description


### Contents

**[Jazz Impressions Full Notebook](jazz_impressions_tool.ipynb)**
- This is the full notebook that creates an mp4 video that is designed to represent the musical influences 
within the inputed Jazz solo audio file. 

**[Jazz Classification Functions](jazzclassification.py)**
- This file contains the code that generates predictions of artists who a snippet of a solo (audio file) may be influenced by, returning the 
top two influences. 

**[Visualiser Functions](visualiserfunc_.py)**
- This file contains the code that generates images of the artists prediceted by the classifyer and blends them using text-to-image prompts.

**[Transition Functions](sdtransitions_.py)**
- This file contains the code to generates transition images between the visualiser images to create video frames, usinging image-to-image prompts.

**[Instrument Labels](instruments.csv)**
- This CSV contains the main instrument played by each artist represented within the model. 

**[LoRA Weights](Jazz_Impressions/weights/)**
- These are the LoRA weights for each artist, generated by fine-tuning Dreambooth using this notebook - https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/autotrain-advanced/blob/main/colabs/AutoTrain_Dreambooth.ipynb?authuser=5#scrollTo=g3cd_ED_yXXt 

**[Data Cleaning files](/cleaningdatanotebooks_images)**
- This folder contains the code used to clean the audio and image data. 

**[Jazz Classification Model](/classification)**
- This is classification model, based on https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/speech_command_classification_with_torchaudio_tutorial.html 



### Bibliography

https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/speech_command_classification_with_torchaudio_tutorial.html 
https://scikit-image.org/docs/stable/auto_examples/transform/plot_swirl.html
https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/autotrain-advanced/blob/main/colabs/AutoTrain_Dreambooth.ipynb?authuser=5#scrollTo=g3cd_ED_yXXt 